- It can be tough
to identify as a Zionist these days.
- But are you ready for a hot take?
I'm willing to bet that some
of the folks on that subway
were Zionists, even if
they didn't know it,
because Zionism is simply the belief
that Jews have a right
to govern themselves
in their ancestral homeland.
Anti-Zionism is the belief
that, well, we don't.
Bad news for the
anti-Zionist crowd, though,
the Zionist dream has already come true.
We do have self-determination
in our ancestral homeland.
It's called the modern state of Israel,
so if we have our own country,
do we still need Zionism?
(graphic crunching)
You might have heard that
Judaism isn't Zionism.
After all, you don't need to
be Jewish to be a Zionist.
There are more Christian
Zionists in the United States
than there are Jews in the entire world,
but let me blow your mind for a second.
Judaism is inherently Zionist.
I can already see you rolling your eyes.
Zionism is a modern concept.
The word Zionism wasn't
invented until 1890.
That's technically true.
Zionism, as a modern political movement,
began in the late 1800s,
but the Jewish connection
to the Land of Israel,
that's 4,000 years old.
The foundational text of our
religion is the Hebrew Bible.
From the very first book,
Israel is presented as the promised land
and the rest is history.
For centuries, we lived and ruled
and squabbled with each
other in this land.
Sometimes, our kings paid
tribute to foreign empires.
Other times, we were fully independent,
but no matter who was in
charge, one thing was constant:
Our land was our home,
and then the Babylonians came along.
They destroyed our capital and
hauled us off to captivity,
but instead of disappearing, we survived.
Thousands of years later,
we're still singing the songs we wrote
in that long-ago exile,
dreaming of our return to Zion,
and that dream came true.
We did return to Zion where
we reestablished our kingdom,
but Jewish self-determination
in the Land of Israel
came to an end
when the Roman Empire
destroyed our communities,
enslaved our people, and
sent us into exile once more.
A handful of Jews remained
in the Land of Israel.
The rest of us scattered,
ending up anywhere from Iraq
to Poland to the Caribbean,
but no matter where we were in the world,
one thing remained constant:
Three times a day, we
turn towards Jerusalem,
and begged God to return us to Zion.
We end each Passover seder
with cries of, "Next year in Jerusalem."
Every summer we observe the
solemn holiday of Tisha B'Av,
which commemorates the
destruction of our home,
and even in moments of
joy and celebration,
we made a point of
remembering our greatest loss.
Ever wonder why Jewish weddings
end with the smashing of a glass?
Now you know.
It's a symbol of the
destruction of Jerusalem
thousands of years ago.
For 1,900 years, we prayed
and longed and remembered,
and over the centuries,
a slow trickle of Jewish
refugees, mystics, and pilgrims
made their way back home,
but as the 19th century
gave way to the 20th,
that trickle became a flood.
Nationalism was sweeping the globe.
Ordinary people living under great empires
dreamed of self-rule,
and Jews who had survived
two millennia of persecution
in foreign lands
began to think of Jerusalem
as more than just a metaphor
or distant religious concept.
It was a real place,
only a boat ride away.
Okay, but why now?
The the Jews had 2,000 years
to turn that trickle to a flood, right?
See, the final years of the 19th century
where a particularly bad
time for Jews in Europe.
Across the Russian Empire,
violence and oppression soared.
The Jews were tired of
pogroms and antisemitic laws,
and though they couldn't know
what shape it would take,
some predicted a catastrophe was coming.
Even so-called enlightened
societies, like France,
seemed unable to rid themselves
of their ingrained hatred of Jews.
In 1894, a decorated French Army officer
named Alfred Dreyfus
was framed for treason,
publicly humiliated,
and deported to Devil's Island,
but there was no evidence for the crime.
In fact, it turned out that
the French Army's high command
had known he was innocent,
but the mistake was embarrassing for them,
so they left him in prison.
They believed that no one
would look too closely at this case.
After all, Dreyfus was a Jew.
The generals had good
reason to think that way.
The country that had once championed
liberté, égalité, et fraternité
was convulsing with antisemitic riots,
but some people were looking closely,
including a Viennese journalist
who had been sent to
France to cover the riots.
What he saw made him
realize that antisemitism
was a disease that couldn't be cured.
That journalist's name was Theodor Herzl.
Like Dreyfus, Herzl
was an assimilated Jew.
He'd done his best to blend in,
to embrace every part
of society open to him,
but now he found himself
gripped by despair.
What hope did the Jewish People have
if even the most
assimilated high-ranking Jew
could be brought so low
on so little evidence?
Pogroms were driving Jews
out of Eastern Europe
in the millions.
Antisemitism had infected
the highest levels of society
in the supposedly enlightened West.
What kind of future did that
leave for Europe's Jews?
I sat down with Haviv Rettig Gur,
a senior analyst for
"The Times of Israel,"
to talk through some of his ideas.
- The Zionist predictive
power is astonishing.
When Zionism forms its institutions
and gives its warnings,
Herzl writes about a
catastrophe that's coming
and says, "They're gonna come for us."
He literally uses those words,
and he's talking about mass
killings, among other things,
and expulsions and
theft and expropriation.
They talk, 50 years ahead of time,
about what's going to happen,
and all of it plays out
just like they predicted
because it was rooted
in a real understanding
of the sociology of the time.
- Herzl decided there was no point
in fighting antisemitism.
If the Jews wanted a
life free of persecution,
they'd have to build it elsewhere,
away from people who hated them.
- Zionism comes in and says
the danger is not old antisem-,
religious antisemitism.
The danger's so much bigger,
and if we don't get out,
we face a catastrophe.
- Like other nations,
they'd need their own state.
They would need to become Zionists:
People who believe
that the Jewish People had a
right to self-determination
in their ancestral homeland.
Though, of course, it
wasn't quite that easy.
It wouldn't be a Jewish
story without an argument,
and these early Zionists loved to argue.
Sure, they agreed on the basic premise,
but what would
self-determination look like?
What should their homeland be?
There were as many answers
as there were Zionists,
but six common themes emerged
in these endless debates,
six types of Zionism,
which sometimes overlapped
and sometimes contradicted each other.
Six Zionisms, which still exist today.
For Political Zionists,
the answer was simple.
The Jewish state should
look like all other states.
It was the Jewish People's lack of a state
that was at the root of all antisemitism.
Once they had a state,
poof, they'd be just like everyone else,
and antisemitism would disappear.
- (groans) Wouldn't that be nice.
- For Labor Zionists,
the Jewish state would be
better than all others.
Its economy would focus on agriculture
in a nod to the Jewish People's roots
as simple farmers in their homeland.
This time, though, they'd
ditch the religious monarchy
in favor of a fully secular
socialist government
for the people by the people.
Cultural Zionists, on the other hand,
dreamed of building a
cultural and spiritual hub
for Jewish peoplehood
where the Jewish soul would flourish.
The Jews would read and
write and sing in Hebrew.
They'd create art with Jewish themes,
hold conversations about Jewish topics,
and regenerate Jewish culture.
They didn't even need
to govern themselves.
They just wanted a Jewish
cultural renaissance
in the place where the
Jewish People were born.
Meanwhile, Revisionist Zionists
dreamed of a big, bold Jewish state
within the borders of biblical Israel.
Revisionist Zionists weren't
necessarily religious,
but they were extremely proud
of their Jewish identity.
They idolized the Jewish warriors
of the Bible and of history.
- When the other Zionist
factions are saying,
"Maybe it can be an autonomy.
"Maybe it can be something
linked to some larger state,"
the revisionists say, "Guys,
"the only way we survive this thing
"is if we have complete
self-determination and self-reliance
"and our own army and our own
borders and our own state.
"Otherwise, it's not gonna work."
- They knew there was a fight ahead,
and they were prepared for it.
Religious Zionists believed
the revival of the Jewish homeland
was a religious obligation.
Their Zionism was the closest in nature
to the Zionism that
Jews had been espousing
for thousands of years.
They believed that the
Jewish return to Zion
was a sign that Judaism's
promised redemption
was close at hand.
God was sending them a message,
they just had to listen.
And because every thesis
has an antithesis,
the religious Zionists
had a diametric opposite.
These were equally religious Jews
who studied the same texts
and said the same prayers
who were also waiting for the Messiah
and the ultimate redemption.
They just disagreed completely
on who would make it happen.
These were the religious non-Zionists
who believed that Jews had no business
trying to establish a secular
state in the Holy Land.
Only God could decide
when it was time for his
children to return home,
and they believed that
God wasn't too happy
about his children
building a secular state
with public transit on
Shabbat and girls in shorts.
Now, before we go any
further, I wanna be clear.
Jews who object to Zionism
on religious grounds
also long for a return to Zion
for the rebuilding of the holy Temple,
for the establishment
of a religious monarchy
in the Holy Land.
They also end their seders
with, "Next year in Jerusalem,"
and their weddings with
the smashing of a glass.
Even they believe that
Israel is the Jewish homeland
promised to us by God.
There were other types of Zionism too.
The movement was as messy and complicated
and multidimensional as Jews themselves.
It was everything everywhere all at once,
but as all these figures
bickered and negotiated
and did their best to
build their own utopias,
shadows were gathering.
Antisemitic laws were common in Europe,
but when the Nazis came to power,
those laws became more and more severe,
and as country after country
fell to the Nazi assault,
they too began instituting
strict anti-Jewish laws.
Jews were no longer
allowed to go to school
or to work or to public parks.
Ordinary people stood by and watched
as Jewish shops and synagogues
were smashed and burned,
as Jews were beaten in the street,
as they were crowded into ghettos,
as they were deported to the East.
The lucky ones got out
as soon as they could,
but most weren't lucky.
By 1946, a third of the
world's Jews were gone,
and all those ideological Zionisms,
the competing visions of
the perfect Jewish state,
they were gone too,
or at least they were secondary now
to the only Zionism that really mattered,
the one that would save
the world's remaining
Jews from annihilation.
First, they'd focus on surviving.
Then they could argue about the specifics
because it wouldn't matter
if the new state was secular or religious,
if its language was Hebrew
or Yiddish or Ladino.
It wouldn't matter
if there were no more
Jews left to live in it.
They argued, and they
negotiated, and they compromised,
but in the end, they just did it.
The Labor Zionists and the Revisionists,
the Cultural Zionists and the Religious
did everything they could
to build a Jewish state,
and though the non-Zionists
were frustrated
and opposed to the whole project,
they understood that this was happening.
It was useless to interfere,
and more than 70 years later, here we are.
This isn't the state
that any of the early Zionists envisioned,
but I think every Zionist leader
would recognize elements of their vision
in this messy, multicultural,
miraculous state
that exists today.
Herzl understood how dangerous
antisemitism would be for Jews,
but even he, that prophet of catastrophe,
was too optimistic about Zionism's powers.
- What was the lived experience
of millions of people
who became Zionists in the 20th century?
It was essentially the emptying
out of entire continents.
They couldn't live anywhere else.
If you're an Israeli Jew
and you look out at
the Eastern Hemisphere,
all the other Jews are dead.
Your grandparents are refugees.
No other option for
survival was open to them.
America's doors closed in 1921.
All the rest of the Jews
of the world become Israeli
or the Jews of Europe and the
Arab world become Israeli.
- Antisemitism wasn't rooted
in our lack of a state.
In fact, our state has
become a convenient target
for those same old Jew-haters,
even providing cover for those
who claim they are merely
anti-Zionists, not antisemites.
- I want Israel to be dismantled.
- It is right to rebel.
Israel, go to hell.
- Anti-Zionism is the argument
that they shouldn't have
survived the 20th century.
That sure feels antisemitic
to the Jew who you're saying it to.
Anti-Zionism need not be antisemitism
unless it's willfully ignorant on purpose
because it is virtue signaling
about the very survival of
an entire human community.
- In Europe, rioters had
screamed, "Go to Palestine,"
often with an anti-Jewish slur
added in for good measure.
In Israel, we watched reports
of protestors demanding
we go back to Europe.
- Go back to Europe,
where you're originally from.
- They killed us there too.
- Go back to the mass grave
that swallowed one third of your people,
but Herzl was also right.
He envisioned a place where
we determine our own destiny,
and that's exactly what we're doing.
He dreamed of a place
where children would grow
up Jewish and unafraid,
a country that would
absorb 800,000 refugees
from the Muslim world
and 1 million from the former
USSR, no matter the cost,
just because they were Jews
who needed a place to go.
Cultural Zionists won too.
Half the world's Jews use
the language of the Bible
to order lattes and comment on TikTok
and get into arguments with traffic cops.
Our music combines East and
West, ancient and modern,
biblical and secular.
Our comedians parody prime
ministers and biblical kings.
Revisionist Zionists
created a language of pride and confidence
that was meaningful to
so many in the new state.
They had predicted correctly
the Jews in Israel would
live on their swords.
As I'm recording this, the
IDF is fighting Hamas in Gaza
and striking Hezbollah targets in Lebanon,
and even though saying "I told you so"
is one of life's greatest
and pettiest pleasures,
I don't think early
Revisionists would be happy
that they were right on this point.
As for the Religious Zionists,
well, the devout see
God's hand everywhere.
It's this faith that allows them
to continue living full and joyous lives
in a state that demands so much.
The only party that truly
lost were the non-Zionists.
Some accepted that loss
and tried to move forward.
Ironically, a small but
significant percentage of Israelis
are non-Zionists.
Even more ironically, they
enjoy full citizenship
and representation in
the Israeli government
where they've carved out a niche
advocating for their religious interests.
As for the anti-Zionist protestors
who believe the state of
Israel should not exist,
well, I'd encourage them to
step into the 21st century
where we have SodaStream and camera pills
and the microprocessors
that are in every single PC,
and also, to step backwards
to the 19th and early 20th centuries
to the time of violence and pogroms
and strict immigration quotas,
and I'd like to see them try and explain
to those fleeing desperate Jews
where else they should have gone.
- The only thing a Zionist
has to say to them is,
"It must be really nice
"to live in a safe, Western place
"where you can meditate on such things,
"and my job is to make sure my kids live.
"Your job is to decide
whether it's moral or not
"for my kids to have survived."
- So do we need Zionism?
Well, it's a complicated question.
The state's founders had
big, conflicting dreams
about what a Zionist
utopia should look like.
All came true in some ways.
None were fully realized.
We still have competing
visions for the future.
We still argue and protest our government
and write scathing op-eds,
and we come together when it counts.
We offer Jews around the globe
the promise that our
ancestors were denied:
You will always have a
home, and that's the point.
That's the bedrock Zionism that
unites all of the Zionisms,
from religious to secular,
from socialist to revisionist.
We have a home.
We will not be homeless
and vulnerable again.
It's a messy home.
We're still in the process of building it,
of creating the kind of place
we want and deserve to live.
That is what I mean when
I say that I'm a Zionist
because I'm one of the millions of people
doing the never-ending work
of building a country worthy
of 2,000 years of longing.